@node Building latest Marsyas on Mac OS X
@subsection Building latest Marsyas on Mac OS X

These instructions are for building the latest development version of Marsyas.
It is assumed that you have already obtained the source code.
If not, please consult @ref{Get Marsyas sources} for instructions.


@subsubsection Install prerequisits

@itemize

@item CMake

Marsyas uses CMake to configure and guide its building process.

Download CMake from the following link and install it:
@uref{http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html}

At some point in installation you may be asked whether you want to install
links to CMake to system locations - choose "yes": this will allow you to run
CMake from the Terminal.

@item Xcode

Xcode development environment provides the Clang compiler required to compile
Marsyas. If you want to use all Marsyas features, you need a compiler with
a decent C++11 support. Hence, please install the latest Xcode version from
Apple:
@uref{https://developer.apple.com/xcode/}

Just as with CMake above, confirm installation of compilation tools to
system locations, so as to make them available for use in the Terminal.

@end itemize



@subsubsection Configure Marsyas using CMake

@enumerate

@item Start up the Terminal application.

@item Navigate to the top-level directory of Marsyas sources. For example:

@example
cd ~/marsyas
@end example

@item Create a build directory within, which will contain configuration
options and compiled Marsyas libraries and programs. Navigate to the build
directory:

@example
mkdir build
cd build
@end example

@item Run CMake, passing it the Marsyas source directory as argument:

@example
cmake ..
@end example

@end enumerate

CMake should now have generated a number of new files in the build directory,
including a file named "Makefile" which allows you to compile Marsyas.


@subsubsection Compile Marsyas using 'make'

Still in the build directory, use 'make' to compile Marsyas:

@example
make
@end example

You could also compile Marsyas in Debug mode, which would help developers
discover bugs in case you run into troubles when using Marsyas. However,
Marsyas will run significantly slower when compiled in Debug mode.

To compile in Debug mode, you need to first use 'cmake' to change a CMake
option named CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE, and then run 'make'. Please mind the "."
add the end of the first command, to indicate the current directory:

@example
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug .
make
@end example

After compiling, you should have Marsyas programs in the 'bin' subdirectory
and the Marsyas library in the 'lib' subdirectory.
