@node Contributing to Marsyas
@chapter Contributing to Marsyas

This chapter explains how to integrate your code in Marsyas so that
others may use it.

@menu
* Contributing documentation::  
* Contributing source documentation::  
* Code style::                  
* Playing in the mudbox::       
* Contributing applications::   
* Contributing system code::    
* Sending a patch::             
* Building documentation::      
* Build system details::        
* Command-line arguments::
* Making a release::
@end menu


@node Contributing documentation
@section Contributing documentation

The documentation for Marsyas is still a work in progress; we can use
all the help we can get.  Don't
say @qq{oh, I don't know enough} or @qq{I'm not good at writing
English.}  The question is not @qq{could anybody create something better
than my suggestion?}  -- the question is @qq{is this better than
nothing?}  Remember the most important thing about documentation:

@quotation
Documentation is like sex: when it is good, it is very, very good; and
when it is bad, it is better than nothing.   (Dick Brandon)
@end quotation


@subsection Manual

If you can add something to the docs, please send an email to
@code{<marsyas-developers@@lists.sourceforge.net>}.  A formal patch for
the texidoc is not required; we can take care of the technical
details.  Here is an example of a perfect documentation suggestion:

@verbatim
To: marsyas-users@lists.sourceforge.net
From: helpful-user@example.net
Subject: doc addition

In 4.2.1 Implicit patching vs. explicit patching, please add
----
It could be helpful to think of this like blah blah blah.
----
to the second paragraph.
@end verbatim


@subsection Examples

Small, easy-to-understand examples are also great.  If you have some
source code that illustrates something, we can add it to
@file{examples/}.  We use these examples to generate the
@userref{Example programs}.  You don't have to write any English at all!


@node Contributing source documentation
@section Contributing source documentation

In your @code{.h} file, just after the @code{namespace Marsyas \n @{}
line, please include a short documentation snippet:

@example
namespace Marsyas
@{
/**
    \ingroup Processing
    \brief Multiply input realvec with gain

	Simple MarSystem example.  Just multiply the values of the input
realvec with gain and put them in the output vector.  This object can be
used as a prototype template for building more complicated MarSystems. 

    Controls:
    - \b mrs_real/gain [w] : adjust the gain multiplier.
*/

class Gain: public MarSystem
@{
@end example

@strong{Warning: } the old convention included a @code{\class Gain};
this was a mistake in our understanding of Doxygen.  Please @strong{do
not} include an explicit class name; just make sure that the doc snippet
occurs above the class.

The @code{[w]} indicates that the control should be written and not
(usefully) read.  Valid options are @code{[r]}, @code{[w]}, and
@code{[rw]}.

The @code{\ingroup GROUP} will generally be @code{Processing},
@code{Analysis}, or @code{Synthesis}.  For details about these
categories, see @userref{MarSystem reference}.  For a complete list
of all available groups, see the file @file{marsyas/groups.doxy}.

There is one special group: @code{Basic} Processing.  This is a subset
of the @code{Processing} group.  No MarSystem should only be in the
@code{Basic} group; it should be placed in both groups, with

@example
\ingroup Processing Basic
@end example

Code which is not a MarSystem should be placed in the @code{Notmar}
group.

A complete list of groups can be found in the @file{marsyas/groups.doxy}
file.  The main groups are @code{Composites}, @code{Basic}, @code{IO},
@code{Processing}, @code{Analysis}, and @code{Synthesis}.


@node Code style
@section Code style

@itemize

@item
We use the Allman  code style (also known as ANSI or BSD code style) with tabs as indentation.
Code style is of course somewhat personal 
and we can almost guarantee that everybody will hate @emph{some} aspect of the style,
but having a uniform style makes it much easier to understand other people's code and fix bugs. 

If possible, configure your editor/IDE to use this code style. 
Otherwise, you can use the @code{astyle} tool (@uref{http://astyle.sourceforge.net/,Artistic Style}) 
(with the @code{ansi} style) for automated clean up of code style issues (braces, indentation, whitespace). 
For ease of use, we have a file @file{misc/astylerc} with predefined options. To use it, call

@example
astyle --options=@emph{/path/to/marsyas_topdir}/misc/astylerc filename.cpp
@end example

@samp{filename.cpp} can include wildcards, like @samp{*.h} and @samp{*.cpp}.

You do not need to format your source code according to this style, 
but don't complain if someone else modifies/cleans up your file accordingly.

Unfortunately, due to historical reasons the code style is not
consistant within the Marsyas source code itself.

@item
Files should use unix line endings.


@item
We strongly encourage the use of underscores@code{_} after member
variables (@qq{member variables} are variables which can be used
throughout the class).  In other words, in your @file{.h} files use:

@example
class MyMar: public MarSystem
@{
private:
	mrs_real varname_;  // don't use a plain "varname"
	...
@}
@end example

@item
By convention, a program (not a MarSystem) should return
@code{exit(0)} upon successful completion.  If any problems arise, the
program should return a number greater than 0.




@end itemize



@node Playing in the mudbox
@section Playing in the mudbox

The easiest way to add code to Marsyas is to add a test to
@file{apps/mudbox/mudbox.cpp}.  This file is a huge mess of short
examples, many out of date and no longer working, but it seems popular.

To add your own test, follow the general pattern of other tests.  You
will need to modify

@itemize
@item @code{void printHelp(string progName)} : display the argument
which calls your test.
@item @code{int main(int argc, const char **argv)} : call your
test function.  Yes, that's a 100-line collection of @code{else if}
statements.  (see @qq{huge mess}, above)
@item @code{void test_myTestName()} : your actual code.
@end itemize


@node Contributing applications
@section Contributing applications

The source code for applications is in the @file{apps/} directory.
The easiest way to get started is probably to copy everything from
an existing directory, then modify the files accordingly.

You should update all these files:

@itemize
@item @file{src/apps/MYDIR/CMakeLists.txt}
@item @file{src/apps/CMakeLists.txt}
@end itemize

By convention, your program should return @code{exit(0)} upon
successful completion.  If any problems arise, the program should
return a number greater than 0.


@node Contributing system code
@section Contributing system code


@menu
* Adding/removing to/from the build system::  
* Contributing non-MarSystem system code::  
* Contributing MarSystems::     
@end menu



@node Adding/removing to/from the build system
@subsection Adding/removing to/from the build system

To add files to the Marsyas build system, use

@example
addMarsystem MyMarSystemName
addClass MyClassName
@end example

@warning{Remember to do @code{svn add}!  Adding files to the build
system does not add them to svn.}

For text files (including source code @code{.h} and @code{.cpp}),
please set

@example
svn propset svn:eol-style native FILE
    for example
svn propset svn:eol-style native *.h *.cpp
@end example

It would be nice if svn did this automatically, but unfortunately
it does not.  :(

To remove files from the build system, use

@example
removeMarsystem MyMarSystemName
removeClass MyClassName
@end example

@warning{Remember to do @code{svn rm}!  Removing files from the
build system does not remove them from svn.}


@node Contributing non-MarSystem system code
@subsection Contributing non-MarSystem system code

If you have created a useful library or set of functions which you
want to share with others, you may add it to the Marsyas source
code.  The new files should be placed in the @file{src/marsyas/}
directory, and added to the build process.

@subheading Automatically

There is a Python script which automates this process; please see
@ref{Adding/removing to/from the build system}.  If you are a
masochist and wish to do this manually, see below.

@subheading Manually

The easiest way is to look for any appearances of @code{realvec}
in the below files, and duplicate these entries using your
@file{myfile}.

@itemize
@item @file{src/marsyas/CMakeLists.txt}
@end itemize


@node Contributing MarSystems
@subsection Contributing MarSystems

If you have created a useful MarSystem which you want to share
with others, you may add it to the Marsyas source code.
@strong{THIS IS NOT REQUIRED FOR BUILDING YOUR OWN APPLICATONS!!!}
See @userref{Compiling and using a new MarSystem}.

@subheading Automatically

There is a Python script which automates this process; please see
@ref{Adding/removing to/from the build system}.  If you are a
masochist and wish to do this manually, see below.

@subheading Manually

The new MarSystem should be placed in the @file{src/marsyas/}
directory, and must be added to @file{MarSystemManager.cpp} and
the build process.  The easiest way is to look for @code{Gain} and
do the same thing with your new MarSystem.

@itemize
@item @file{src/marsyas/CMakeLists.txt}
@end itemize


@node Sending a patch
@section Sending a patch

@subheading Checklist

@itemize
@item Does Marsyas still compile?
@item Does Marsyas still pass @code{make test}?
@item Did you follow @ref{Contributing source documentation} (if applicable)?
@item Did you add your file(s) to the build process?
@end itemize

If the answer to all these questions is @emph{yes}, then proceed.


@subheading Producing the patch

To produce a patch with svn, simply type

@example
svn diff > mypatch.diff
@end example

@noindent
and then send the resulting file to
@code{<marsyas-developers@@lists.sourceforge.net>}.

If you have SVN write access, you may simply type

@example
svn ci
@end example


@node Building documentation
@section Building documentation

This manual is built with texinfo, and the source code documentation is
created with doxygen.  These software packages may be installed from

@itemize
@item @uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/, texinfo}
@item @uref{http://www.doxygen.org/, doxygen}
@item @uref{http://www.graphviz.org/, graphviz}
@end itemize

The latest version of the manual is in the SVN tree; create a new
directory @code{doc-build}, run cmake, and make.

Source-highlighted examples are stored in the @file{doc/source-doc/}
directory.  These may be built with this additional program and the
following command:

@itemize
@item @uref{http://www.gnu.org/software/src-highlite/, GNU/source-highlight}
@end itemize

@example
scripts/generate-source-docs.sh
@end example


@node Build system details
@section Build system details

The main file is src/CMakeLists.txt.  Additional modules are in
cmake-modules/.


@node Command-line arguments
@section Command-line arguments

We're trying to avoid have the same command-line arguments meaning
different things in different programs.  All arguments should have
a short form (1-2 characters) and a long form.  Here is a list of
commands with specific meanings; if you want to do something
different, then find a different pair of letters for the short
form.

@example
(null)             : same as -u
-u --usage
-h --help
-v --verbose
-s --silent
-q --quiet

-o --output    : output to a file

-g --gain

-ws --windowsize
-hs --hopsize
-ms --memorysize

-sa --start
-ln --length
-pl --plugin

-sr --samplerate
-ch --channels

-co --collection

@end example

We're still in the process of renaming arguments, so there may be
inconsistencies between actual program behaviour and this list.


@node Making a release
@section Making a release

Checklist:

@enumerate

@item
From the top source dir, build in RELEASE mode and test:

@example
mkdir -p build-release/
cd build-release/
cmake ../src/
make clean ; make -j3
make test
@end example


@item
Build the docs from the top source dir,

@example
mkdir -p build-doc
cd build-doc
cmake ../doc/
make clean ; make -j3
@end example


@item
In the top source dir, create tarball (adjust number as
necessary):

@example
svn export . /tmp/marsyas-0.4.8/
cd /tmp && tar -czf marsyas-0.4.8.tar.gz marsyas-0.4.8/
@end example


@item
Upload the tarball.  Either use the web interface, or
command-line.  Update the filename and @code{gperciva@@} as
needed.

@c if you update the rsync command, remember that texinfo requires
@c a @ to be escaped with @@.
@example
rsync /tmp/marsyas-0.4.8.tar.gz \
  gperciva@@frs.sourceforge.net:/home/frs/projects/marsyas/marsyas/
@end example

RSYNC CURRENTLY UNTESTED!


@item
Set the default download to the new file.  To my knowledge, this
must be done with the online sourceforge interface.


@item
Upload the docs from the top source dir,

@example
scripts/upload-docs.sh
@end example

That script might require directory names to be adjusted.


@end enumerate




