\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@comment %**start of header
@setfilename marsyas-user.info
@settitle Marsyas User Manual
@comment %**end of header
     

@dircategory Audio 
@direntry 
* Marsyas: (marsyas). Marsyas Analysis Retrieval and Synthesis for
Audio Signals 
@end direntry

@copying 
Copyright 1998-2006 George Tzanetakis 

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim
copies of this manual provided the copyright notice and
this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified
versions of this manual under the conditions for
verbatim copying, provided also that the sections
entitled "Copying" and "GNU General Public License"
are included exactly as in the original, and provided
that the entire resulting derived work is distributed
under the terms of a permission notice identical to this
one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute
translations of this manual into another language,
under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a
translation approved by the Free Software Foundation.
@end copying 
     
@titlepage
@title Marsyas User Manual 
@subtitle For version 0.3 
@subtitle @b{M}usic @b{A}nalysis @b{R}etrieval and @b{SY}nthesis for @b{A}udio @b{S}ignals 
@author Graham Percival and George Tzanetakis 
     
@c  The following two commands
@c  start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll


@end titlepage
@contents
     
@c So the toc is printed in the right place.
      
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Marsyas User Manual
@end ifnottex


@menu
* General information::         Introduction, history, related work, and goals.
* Source installation::         Installation instructions for different operating systems.
* Tour::			A tour of Marsyas functionality 
* Available tools::             Various sample tools built using marsyas
components.
* Graphical User Interfaces using Qt4::   Various sample tools built using
marsyas and Qt.
* Architecture concepts::       Important concepts about Marsyas.
* System details::              Details about Marsyas.
* Scripting::                   Working with MarSystems without C++.
* Writing applications::        Writing programs that use Marsyas.
* Programming MarSystems::      Writing new MarSystem blocks.
* Missing Docs::                Your assistance requested!
* The Index::                   The Index.
@end menu


@include macros.itexi 
@include intro.texi
@include install.texi
@include tour.texi
@include tools.texi
@include qttools.texi
@include architecture.texi
@include system.texi
@include scripting.texi
@include writing.texi
@include programming.texi


@node Missing Docs
@unnumbered Missing Docs

@c no particular reason why we use "vr" for this.
@printindex vr


@node The Index
@unnumbered The Index 

@printindex cp 



@bye
