@node Graphical User Interfaces using Qt4
@chapter Graphical User Interfaces using Qt4

Marsyas provides integration support for the Qt4 user 
interface toolkit. By using the MarSystemQtWrapper 
any processing network can be wrapped into a proper 
QObject with signals and slots enabling direct integration 
with Qt objects and widgets. The wrapper hides issues 
of threading, buffering, etc. Another supported functionality 
that uses the Qt signal/slot system is the ability 
to send and process Open Sound Control 
@cindex Open Sound Control (OSC) messages through OscMapper. 


@menu
* MarPlayer::                   
* MarPhaseVocoder::             
* MarGrid::                     
* MarMonitors::                 
* MarLPC::                      
@end menu


@node MarPlayer
@section MarPlayer

MarPlayer is a simple graphical user interface for playback 
of soundfiles supported in Marsyas. It has shuttle controls 
and allows for arbitrary seeking and looping. From a developer 
perspective it provides an example of how the Qt Designer 
interface toolkit for desinging and layout and graphical 
appearance of the user interface. 


@node MarPhaseVocoder
@section MarPhaseVocoder

MarPhaseVocoder is a front-end to the marsyas phasevocoder. 
It is an example of how all the interface code can be 
directly written in C++. It uses a common architecture 
with three layers for separating the handling of graphical 
user interface action, their mapping, and their connection 
to the wrapper. 


@node MarGrid
@section MarGrid

MarGrid is a music collection visualization interface. It utilizes 
feature extraction and a self-organized map to map each song in a
collection to a square in a grid of cells. Once the self-organized 
map has been trained it can be used to predict grid positions for 
new songs. 


@node MarMonitors
@section MarMonitors

MarMonitors is a proof-of-concept interface that allows 
the inspection of realvec controls of any MarSystem. 
It's a step towards generic interface for designing, debugging 
processing network that are not tied to a specific application. 

@node MarLPC
@section MarLPC

MarLPC is a user interface to a system for adding breathiness 
to the singing voice using Adaptive Pre-Emphsis 
Linear Prediction (Nordstrom, Tzanetakis, Driessen 2008). 
It also serves as an example of how Open Sound Control (OSC) 
can be used to change controls through Qt. The patch 
scripts/PureData/MarLpc.pd can be usd to demontrate this communication. 


