@node System details
@chapter System details


@menu
* Library reference::           
* Predefined types::            
* Realvec::                     
* Systems limitations::         
@end menu


@node Library reference
@section Library reference

@subsection Source documentation

MarSystems are documented in the
@ifhtml
@uref{../../sourceDoc/index.html,
source documentation}.
@end ifhtml
@ifnothtml
source documentation available at
@code{@uref{http://marsyas.info/docs/index.html}}.
@end ifnothtml
Most MarSystems are organized into groups.

@subsection MarSystem groups

The groups are fairly self-explanatory, but we should clarify a few
groupings:

@itemize
@item @strong{Processing}: audio block => audio block.  Examples are
@code{Gain} and @code{Filter}

@item @strong{Analysis}: audio block => other block.  Examples are
@code{Spectrum} and @code{Rms}.

@item @strong{Synthesis}: other block => audio block.  Examples are
@code{SineSource} and @code{NoiseSource}.

@end itemize

There is one special group: @code{Basic} Processing.  This is a subset
of the @code{Processing} group.

To see all MarSystems, look at @emph{Data Structures} instead of
@emph{Main Page}.

@subsection Limited documentation

The @qq{main} MarSystems are fairly well documented, but many MarSystems
lack even basic documentation.  In this case, the only option is to read
the source code.

@WANTED{ Once you have learned how to use an undocumented MarSystem,
please help document it.  The source documentation only requires adding
a special comment in the source file, so it is very easy! Please see
@develref{Contributing source documentation}.}


@node Predefined types
@section Predefined types

@subsection Variables types

Marsyas contains some predefined, portable data types:

@cindex mrs_bool
@cindex mrs_natural
@cindex mrs_real
@cindex mrs_complex

@example
mrs_bool
mrs_natural   (integers)
mrs_real
mrs_complex
@end example

The use of these variable types instead of normal C++ like @code{int}
and @code{double} is @strong{strongly} recommended.

@warning{a number like @samp{100} is interpreted as a
@emph{mrs_natural}.  If you want to pass this value to a
@emph{mrs_real}, you must specify @samp{100.0}.}


@subsection Constants

A number of useful constants, such as @code{PI} and @code{TWOPI} (at
double precision instead of float) are defined in
@file{marsyas/common.h}.


@node Realvec
@section Realvec
@cindex realvec

The basic unit of data in Marsyas is the @code{realvec}, which is
essentially a one- or two-dimensional array of real numbers.  All data
flows from MarSystem to MarSystem in the form of @code{realvec}s; the
actual function which does the main work of every MarSystem is

@example
void
@emph{MarSystem_name}::myProcess(realvec& in, realvec& out)
@{
	...
@}
@end example

In other words, each MarSystem takes a @code{realvec} as input, and
writes a @code{realvec} as output.

@menu
* Reading and writing to a realvec::  
* Resizing a realvec::          
* Realvec arithmetic::          
* Applying a function to a realvec::  
* Realvec input and output to a file::  
* Statistical analysis::        
* Other realvec functions::     
@end menu


@node Reading and writing to a realvec
@subsection Reading and writing to a realvec

Realvecs may be accessed using @code{var_name(index) = value}.

@subsubheading Non-pointer way (allocation in stack)

@example
mrs_natural i,j;

realvec foo;
foo.create(10);
for (i=0; i<10; i++) @{
	foo(i) = i;
@}
for (i=0; i<10; i++) @{
	cout<<foo(i)<<endl;
@}

realvec bar;
bar.create(5,10);
for (i=0; i<5; i++) @{
	for (j=0; j<10; j++) @{
		bar(i,j) = i+j;
	@}
@}
@end example

@subsubheading Pointer way (allocation on heap)

@example
// pointer for this example
realvec *baz;

// automatically calls calls create
baz = new realvec(10,20);

// we could do it this way if we wanted (instead of the above line)
//baz = new realvec;
//baz->create(10,20);

for (i=0; i<10; i++) @{
	for (j=0; j<20; j++) @{
		(*baz)(i,j) = i+j;
	@}
@}
delete baz;  // don't forget to free the allocated memory
@end example


@node Resizing a realvec
@subsection Resizing a realvec

The size of a realvec may be changed dynamically; you may also get the
current size.

@example
stretch();

getSize();
// for two-dimensional realvecs
getCols();
getRows();
@end example

If you do not know how big your realvec should be, use
@code{stretchWrite(...)}.  This function checks to make sure that the
realvec is big enough; if not, it resizes the realvec (by doubling the
size) so that it can store the value.  This function is much slower than
normal writing.


@node Realvec arithmetic
@subsection Realvec arithmetic

Realvecs may be set (=), added, subracted, and the like.

@example
// realvec foo created, filled with data, etc.
...

realvec bar;
bar = foo;
// bar is now the same size and contains the same data

// arithmetic
baz = foo + bar;
baz = foo + 3;
@end example


@node Applying a function to a realvec
@subsection Applying a function to a realvec

Use apply().

@example
void
TranscriberExtract::toMidi(realvec* pitchList)
@{
    pitchList->apply( hertz2pitch );
@}
@end example


@node Realvec input and output to a file
@subsection  Realvec input and output to a file

@example
/* you can do
realvec foo;
...
cout<<foo;
file<<foo;
*/
friend std::ostream& operator<<(std::ostream&, const realvec&);
friend std::istream& operator>>(std::istream&, realvec&);


// does the "file<<foo" method
void write(std::string filename) const;
void read(std::string filename);


// input/output functions for line-separated text files
void readText(std::string filename);
void writeText(std::string filename);
@end example


@node Statistical analysis
@subsection Statistical analysis

This is an incomplete list:

@example
maxval();
minval();
mean();
median();
sum();
std();
var();
meanObs();
stdObs();
varObs();
normObs();
sort();
abs();
sqr();
sqroot();
covariance();
covariance2();
correlation();
det();
divergenceShape();
bhattacharyyaShape();
@end example


@node Other realvec functions
@subsection Other realvec functions

For a complete (and up-to-date) list of all realvec functions, please
see the file @file{marsyas/realvec.h}



@node Systems limitations
@section System limitations

There are many bugs in Marsyas (far too many to list here!), but there
@emph{are} a few issues which are more fundamental.  We list these
issues here, along with workarounds.


@subsection Stereo vs. mono in a spectrum

Due to the way that observations behave in Marsyas, in some cases it is
impossible to differentiate between a stereo signal and a mono signal
which is twice as long.  In particular, there is currently no direct way
to tell apart a stereo pair of spectrums from a mono spectrum with twice
the number of bins. 

In these cases, we recommend that you use a Parallel Composite: split
the stereo signal into separate mono dataflows (using Parallel), then
treat each mono signal individually.



