@setfilename unsorted.info
@node Future Work
@chapter Future Work

As is the case with most software projects, there is a lot of future
work that I would like to do and I welcome any assistance, feedback,
requests for features you might have. Most of my plans can be found in
the TODO file of the distribution. However it is not clearly written
and intended for my own personal use.

Some of the more long-term and ambitious plans for the future will be
described in this section. If you would like to contribute some code
to the project and you don't know where to start this section might
give you some ideas.

python bindings msl interpreter with vertical syntax msl interpreter
with chuck-like syntax SDIFF IO Open Sound Control (OSC)



@node Users and Projects
@chapter Users and Projects

One of the greatest feelings a researcher/programmer can have is
learning about people around the world doing exciting things with
her/his software. There have been many amazing projects done with
Marsyas and I hope to include them all in this section.  If you are
working on Marsyas and your name is not here, I would love to learn
about your project and include it in this section. Also send me an
email if you are one of the people mentioned in this section and you
have some more information about how marsyas was used in your project.
I would also like to thank all of you who have found Marsyas 
useful and helped me make it a better software framework.



(NOTES TO MYSELF about what I should write) 

Mark Cardle
Moodlogic 
AllMusic Inc. The Netherlands
IslandGame 
Luis Gustavo Martins 
Stephaan Lippens 
Tao Li 
Karin Koshina ??? (spelling) 
Chris West  ??? (spelling) 
George Tourtellot 
Corrie Elder 
Kris West



@c  was in "tools" chapter.  Doesn't belong.  Will sort out
@c  later.  -gp
The subdirectory distributed contains sources and sinks that can 
be used to transmit sound and in general marsyas data over 
the network using TCP and UDP protocols. It enables cool 
thing like reading soundfiles on one computer sending fft 
frames for analysis to multiple computers and then 
assembling the results. The actual code has only be tested 
under Linux and is under construction so you at your own risk 
or even better fix the problems. 


